# Editing

Write First, Edit Later

Editing while you write is like chopping down a tree you are trying to climb

1.  Down Draft
2.  Up Draft
3.  Dental Draft

### Up Draft

-   Is it a paragraph?
-   Do the sentences flow?
-   Are there stumbling blocks in logic?
-   Does it say what you want it to say?
-   Can it be shortened without loosing meaning?

"Due to the fact that" = Because
"It is noteworthy that" = Previous researchers identifies the cause of ....
"It is well known that"
"As it has been shown"
"It can be regarded that"
"It should be emphasised that"

List of Dead Weight Phrases in Lecture Notes

### Editing

1.  Big Picture/Structural (Developmental Editing)
2.  Paragraph level (Editing)
3.  Sentence level (Copy Editing)
4.  Proof Reading

#### Structural

-   Does it say what you want it to say?
-   Does all content relate to main message?
-   Cut Sections
-   Move Sections around
-   Topic Sentence - Skim Read to check flow

#### Editing

-   Read your writing aloud / Use a text to speech app
-   Cut long paragraphs into two: a sentence can only do one thing
-   Cut long paragraphs into two: Each sentence must be about one central idea
-   Remove minimise adverbs
-   Simplify words
-   Remove redundancy
-   Remove prepositions
-   Check for nominalisations

#### Copy Editing

-   Grammar
-   Punctuation
-   Consistency

#### Proof Reading

Spelling
Repeated words
Formatting

## Next Assesment Task

-   1000 words
-   Interdisciplinary Audience
-   News: What is exciting about your research?
-   Science or Nature
-   Examples on LMS

First Submission - Thursday 18th April
Peer Review - 22nd to 29th April
Dont Miss Week 7 Tute!
Final submission: Friday 17th May 
