# Speaking about science: crafting a brilliant talk 2

Stories are special:

-   Easy to understand
-   Easy to remember
-   'Psychologically Privileged'
-   A Vehicle for your Message

Telling a story:

-   You are the main character
-   What is your quest (research question)?
-   Engaging in a battle with your dataset?
-   Are you a tragic hero? (was your search fruitless?)
-   Did you find what you were looking for?
-   What does that mean?
-   Are you now keen to embark on another mission?

Dont destroy narrative with too many details/ excessive data (get over imposter syndrome)
Chronology of research

Choice of language

Avoid TLAs

#### Visuals

Simple text and visuals have 65% retention rate

Be careful
    Less is More
    Can the audience read it? Large size, san serif font, colors
    If the audience is reading, they are not listening (use as few words as possible)

-   One idea per slide
-   Takes time to explain graphs/diagrams
-   Blank Slides
-   There to engage the audience, add impact or explain something complex
-   (Have a blank slide!)

Good figures take time

Crux of talk

Be aware of color blindness

Proofread

No 'Thank you' or 'Questions?' on last slide!! Use this prome position more strategically
Next steps maybe? (What to do next)

If your audience is reading, they are not listening!

#### Presentation Skills

Don't read notes (preferrably no notes)

Don't talk facing Slides

Posture and body language

Don't be afraid of natural gestures

Watch out for nervous habits

Volume, pace, rhythm

Eye contact

Enthusiasm and Passionate

Modulation of voice

Watch your Audience

Be prepared to change tack

End on a memroable note - a definite ending

Appropriate dress (a bit classier than those around you)

#### Be confident

-   WHat is your fear?
-   What is the cause of it?
-   What story are you telling yourself?

Coping with nerves

-   Don't expect perfection
-   Don't equate public speaking to your self worth
-   Don't memorise
-   Don't read
-   Think less and engage more (Its all about the audience - not you!)
-   Avoid being nervous about your nervousness
-   Reframe anxiety as excitement
-   Breathe and pause
-   

Practice aloud! Don't rote learn

More Rehearsal

#### Ways to improve

Practice
Reframe attitude
Watch videos
Listen to yourself

Cannot go overtime to avoid questions! 
